#Introduction
This tool generates TPC-DS data and loads it into the Couchbase bucket. The tool can be configured through a `properties`
file or `command line arguments`. If both are provided, the `properties` file values are read first, and are overwritten
with the `command line arguments` to ease the configuration when running multiple instances. Based on the provided
parameters, it is possible to generate all the data on a single instances running multiple threads, or generate the
data on multiple partitions. This configuration is done using the `partitions` and `partition` properties, which is
explained further below.

#Parameters
The tool reads the parameters from `properties` file and `command line arguments`, if both are provided, the `command
line arguments` overwrite the `properties` parameters. The parameter names are case-insensitive. Below is the list of
the configurable parameters:

`hostname`: The host name of the Couchbase server to connect to, default value is `localhost`.

`username`: The username of the Couchbase server to connect to, default value is `Administrator`.

`password`: The password of the Couchbase server to connect to, default value is `couchbase`.

`bucket`: The name of the bucket to load the data into, default value is `tpcds`.

`isdeleteifbucketexists (Temporarily disabled)`: Deletes the bucket if it already exists, and re-creates it to ensure
the bucket is empty before loading the data. The bucket name used is the argument value `bucket` passed. The default
value is `true`.

`bucketsize (Temporarily disabled)`: Size of the bucket in megabytes.

`batchlimit`: The number of records to generate before doing a batch upsert operation, default value is 10,000.

`scalingfactor`: The scaling factor provided to the TPC-DS data generator. The scaling factor determines the data size
to be generated, the default value is `1 (1GB of data)`.

`partitions`: The number of partitions that the generator will run on. This will indicate to the TPC-DS generator how
the data needs to be split to be generated in partitions, the default value is `2`.

`partition (starts at 1)`: The number of the partition to be generated by the TPC-DS generator. Example, running two
instances with `partitions=2`, one with `partition=1` and the other with `partition=2`. The first instance will generate
the first partition (approximately 50% of the data), while the other instances will generate the rest. `partitions` and
`partition` properties go hand in hand to indicate what partition of the data to be generated. The default value is
`-1`, which indicates that the current instances will generate all the data alone.

`kvendpoints`: The number of KV endpoints to be used by the Couchbase server. Increasing the KV endpoints would improve
the throughput performance, the default value is `2`.

`kvtimeout`: The time it takes for an upsert operation to timeout and fail. Time is in milliseconds, default value is
`10000 (10 seconds)`.

`failureretrydelay`: The time delay to retry in case of a failure upsert operation. Time is in milliseconds, default
value is `5000 (5 seconds)`.

#How To Use
The tool can be run on a single partition to generate the data, or multiple partitions. The `partitions` property should
match the number of partitions that will be used to generate the data. The `partitions` property tells the TPC-DS
generator about the number of partitions that will need to be generated, and the TPC-DS will adjust the data generation
accordingly. The `partition` property will indicate the partition to be generated. For example, if generating the data
on `2` partitions, the `partitions` property needs to be set to `2` (this needs to be set on all running instances, as
it is needed for the TPC-DS generator configuration), and the two running partitions will have properties `partition`
`1` and `partition` `2`.

Two of the properties are currently disabled, namely `isdeleteifbucketexists` and `bucketsize`. Because of that, to
get a correct result, a bucket needs to be created ahead of time, and needs to be empty. The bucket name should match
the `bucket` property value which the tool will write to.