# Introduction
This tool generates JSON data and writes it to a file. The tool can be configured to customize how the
data is generated. The configuration parameters are passed using `command line arguments`.

**Note: Currently, the tool will generate the data for a single file only. The tool is intended to
generate a single file with the specified parameters, then the file can be duplicated to increase
the data size as required**

# Parameters
The tool reads the parameters from `command line arguments`, Below is the list of the configurable parameters:

*Note: All parameters are required.*

`total number of records`(required) **`1st`** parameter to be passed. It specifies the total number of records
that should be generated by the tool.

`number of records per file`(required) : **`2nd`** parameter to be passed. It specifies the number of records
per file.

`file name`(required) : **`3rd`** parameter to be passed. It specifies the name of the file to be created
to write the records to.

`record size`(required) : **`4th`** parameter to be passed. It specifies the size of the record to be
generated in bytes. This property and `record fields count` are used to calculate the size
of each record field to generate an estimated record size of `record size`.

`record fields count`(required) : **`5th`** parameter to be passed. It specifies the number of fields for
the record to be generated. This property and `record size` are used to calculate the size
of each record field to generate an estimated record size of `record size`.

# How To Use
## Running the Python script
To run the tool, use the following command:
`python3 jsondatagen.py 1stArg .... nthArg`

Note: All arguments must be provided. The tool will generate the file relative to where it got executed.
And will also display statistics related to the data generation.


#### Example
Running the tool to generate `2,000,000 records`, with `1000` records in a file named `file-1000.json`.
With a record size of `10,000` bytes and `10` fields per record.

```
python jsondatagen.py 2000000 1000 file-1000.json 10000 10
```
